The FPGA Bombe machine reliably decoded Enigma messages, and functioned with any user-inputted crib. Ultimately, we believe that our project is unique with respect to the extent of the Bletchley Park algorithms it combines. We certainly did not find any similar program during our research process. 

The workflow in the development of this project was notably distinct from that of our lab exercises. Primarily, the bulk of the work we had conducted was towards the development of a strong system architecture to combine many historical machines and algorithms into one integrated system. Our central question became one of system architecture, which contrasts the central questions of our lab exercises—that is, the optimization of a largely pre-defined system architecture. While many of the lab exercises were created from several key physical equations, the Bombe machine and its surrounding algorithms simply could not be defined in such a way. (In fact, at the beginning of our project, a subject of contention was the extent to which we should abstract the machines into mathematical operations. We had considered an alternative project centered on the simulation of the Bombe machine itself, which would entail the faithful reconstruction of the Bombe machine mechanisms and the animation of the machine). We found this experience to be uniquely rewarding, and had a lot of fun developing the system from scratch.

In the alternative perspective, the structure of our project had limited the optimizations that we were able to make. We were ultimately unable to optimize our program as much as we had hoped or planned. Because of the interconnected nature of the project, a single optimization always required the modification of several state machines. Some optimizations we had hoped to make involved the modification of the entire system architecture. In another week, we would’ve implemented a couple more of the optimizations we devised at the outset of our project:

1. The central optimization that we had hoped to achieve was the parallel operation of the Bombe module. We made a number of optimizations to this module in order to decrease the amount of ALM usage it consumed, with the ultimate goal of running three of these in parallel. This would ultimately have made our algorithm three times faster. We had designed a system architecture to identify the decryption problems between the modules, and had envisioned that it would look something like this:

[]

2. We preserved the central algorithm of the Bombe machine, but its functionality is a snapshot of one particular rendition of the machine. In reality, we could attempt to implement the more developed Bombe machine with more integrity. Particularly, the diagonal board was an important addition made to the mechanism that greatly decreased the number of false stops.

3. We did not conduct a complete analysis of the frequencies at which the program could be clocked. We had chosen 25 MHz to serve as the system clock for our final demonstration. However, with a more thorough analysis, we anticipate that we could have clocked certain modules with longer critical paths on a PLL, and that we could accommodate the differences in clocking frequencies with a state machine in the higher-level modules. 

4. We conducted a brief analysis of the tradeoffs between parallel and sequential equivalent circuit module operation (as detailed in the Implementation section). However, the analysis was conducted in ModelSim for very specific test cases. We would have liked to evaluate this with more determinism, taking into account factors such as the average loop length depending on different crib lengths. This may have changed the way we approached the tradeoff—however, once the system architecture was thoroughly established for the configuration we had chosen, a considerable amount of modification would have been involved to build a system for the alternate architecture.

5. In order to simulate rotor stepping, we simulated the steps and evaluated the notch conditions at each step. This is partially because we did not have the time to develop a sufficient combinational algorithm that could meet timing that would compute the final position from the initial position and offset. With more time, we may have optimized the algorithm to involve less combinational logic, or to develop a pipelined system to compute the resulting position. We predict that this would result in equivalent circuit generation with a time complexity of $O(1)$, rather than $O(n)$.

6. The critical path that drove us to run our program at 25 MHz was the cascade of rotors and reflectors. We had optimized it with two tables of size $26^2$ and one table of size 26, stored in modules. However, this could’ve been executed in a couple other ways, both of which we did not have the opportunity to fully evaluate. One option was to pipeline the computation of the rotor increment rather than to incorporate it as part of our lookup table, reducing the size of each of the rotor tables by 26x. The other option was to create even larger lookup tables so that the critical path would be as short as reading from memory. However, in order to support the large number of elements this would require, we would need to store it either in M10K blocks or in SRAM, because the contents wouldn’t change. To develop this configuration, we would need to develop a pipelined state machine to read from memory.

Beyond optimizations towards the speed of computation, we envisioned a suite of related UI/UX features that could be implemented. Firstly, although we had a functional Enigma subsystem within our program, we didn’t develop a user interface that would allow the direct usage of the Enigma machine. Along with the functionality of the Enigma, we could incorporate an animation of the manner in which the Enigma encoders messages, acting as an interactive simulation to teach users about the functionality of the Enigma. Similarly, although much of the Bombe algorithms are abstracted away from the original machine, the key features of equivalent rotors and wiring are preserved in our algorithm. This could also form the basis for an interactive simulation, together with the animation of the machine incrementing through different initial position hypotheses. Finally, each of these machines are often associated with clicky mechanical sounds, reflecting the electromechanical nature of the systems. As part of the simulation suite, the generation of clicking noises using the FPGA would create a more immersive experience. 

If our extensive list of further developments hasn't convinced you yet, we’d like to end our report by highlighting the creative directions that this project encouraged. What we've loved most about this project is how open-ended it was, prompting us to pursue meaningful expansions in multiple directions: from algorithmic optimizations and novel implementations to exploring the historical context of an often-overlooked cryptographic achievement. We hope that our report has taught you something new, and given you the opportunity to appreciate this incredible tidbit of history.